Update article "Emulate and test other browsers" (#3210)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/device-mode/testing-other-browsers.md

Here are some browser emulators you can use to test your site on other browsers:

* [Firefox Responsive Design Mode](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/devtools-user/responsive_design_mode/index.html).
* [Chrome Device Mode](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/device-mode).
* [Safari Responsive Design Mode](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/safari-developer-tools/responsive-design-mode).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Device emulators and simulators

Device simulators and emulators simulate not just the browser environment but the entire device.  Each simulator is useful to test things that require specific integration with the operating system, such as form input with mobile device keyboards.

You install device emulators and simulators on your development machine. You can therefore continue to test your website on the same machine where you're developing, while simulating the experience of using a different device.

> 

Author: a local commit that didn't get pushed yet, probably from a PB comment: integrate/check:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/feeeaa73-f517-4e18-8103-660e4d730019)

If Device Emulation in Microsoft Edge DevTools isn't sufficient for your testing needs, you can test by using real devices instead.  If you don't have access to the real devices that you want to test on, setting up a virtual machine or using a cloud-based testing service can help.  A big advantage of cloud-based testing services is that they can help you automate testing for your site across different platforms and form factors.

@captainbrosset

   limitations under the License.  -->
# Emulate and test other browsers

To make sure your website works for all your users, test your website on other browsers and devices. Not all of your users will be using the browser and device that you used when developing. We encourage you to check out solutions for emulation provided by other browsers, in addition to using the **Device Emulation** tool in Microsoft Edge DevTools.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Summary

There are several different levels of testing that you can do to test your website under different conditions:

> * **Browser emulators** help you to quickly test how your website looks and behave at different screen sizes and resolutions, with touch event emulation, and by overriding the User-Agent string that the browser sends. You use browser emulators from the browser you're developing on. See [Browser emulators](#browser-emulators), below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Browser emulators** help you to quickly test how your website looks and behaves at different screen sizes and resolutions, with touch event emulation, and by overriding the User-Agent string that the browser sends. You use browser emulators from the browser you're developing on. See [Browser emulators](#browser-emulators), below.
```

Author: **that** you're developing on.  will push commit:  (behaves)
```
* **Browser emulators** help you to quickly test how 
your website looks and behaves at different screen sizes 
and resolutions, with touch event emulation, and by 
overriding the User-Agent string that the browser sends.  You 
use browser emulators from the browser that you're 
developing on.  See [Browser emulators](#browser-emulators), 
below.
```

> * **Device emulators and simulators** enable you to run other devices from the device you're developing on and test your website on these other devices. See [Device emulators and simulators](#device-emulators-and-simulators), below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Device emulators and simulators** enable you to run other devices from your development machine and test your website on these other devices. See [Device emulators and simulators](#device-emulators-and-simulators), below.
```

Author: from your development machine and test your website **as if** you were using these other devices.
@captainbrosset fyi

Author: result; will push commit:
```
* **Device emulators and simulators** enable you to run other devices from your development machine and test your website as if you were using these other devices.  See [Device emulators and simulators](#device-emulators-and-simulators), below.
```

   limitations under the License.  -->
# Emulate and test other browsers

To make sure your website works for all your users, test your website on other browsers and devices. Not all of your users will be using the browser and device that you used when developing. We encourage you to check out solutions for emulation provided by other browsers, in addition to using the **Device Emulation** tool in Microsoft Edge DevTools.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Summary

There are several different levels of testing that you can do to test your site under different conditions:

> * **Browser emulators** help you to quickly test how your website looks and behave at different screen sizes and resolutions, with touch event emulation, and by overriding the user-agent string the browser sends. You use browser emulators from the browser you're developing on. See [Browser emulators](#browser-emulators), below.

Author: will push local commit

* **Device emulators and simulators** enable you to run other devices from the device you're developing on and test your website on these other devices. See [Device emulators and simulators](#device-emulators-and-simulators), below.

* **Cloud-based emulators** enable you to run automated tests for your site across different platforms. See [Cloud-based emulators and simulators](#cloud-based-emulators-and-simulators), below.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Browser emulators

> Browser emulators are great for testing the way your site looks and behaves at different screen sizes and resolutions, or when touch events are enabled, or when the user-agent string is set to another browser's user-agent string.

Author: ```suggestion
Browser emulators are great for testing the way your site looks and behaves at different screen sizes and resolutions, or when touch events are enabled, or when the User-Agent string is set to another browser's User-Agent string.
```
hits 2 & 3 of 3: 
init cap per FTS @captainbrosset 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/95395f27-5e87-407b-966a-fd3e6d5b1dbd)

Author: will push local commit

> You use browser emulators from the browser you're developing on. For example, in Microsoft Edge, you can use the **Device Emulation** tool in DevTools to get an approximation of how your site looks and behaves on different devices.  See [Emulate mobile devices (Device Emulation)](./index.md) for more information on how to use the **Device Emulation** tool in Microsoft Edge DevTools.

Author: ```suggestion
You use browser emulators from the browser you're developing on. For example, in Microsoft Edge, you can use the **Device Emulation** tool in DevTools to get an approximation of how your site looks and behaves on different devices.  For more information on how to use the **Device Emulation** tool in Microsoft Edge DevTools, see [Emulate mobile devices (Device Emulation)](./index.md).
```
If X, then Y.  vs  Do X if Y.
i or you can apply the comment @captainbrosset

Author: will push local commit

> Browser emulators don't emulate differences in web API or CSS support. For example, the **Device Emulation** tool in Microsoft Edge doesn't emulate how the different web APIs or CSS features that your site might be using are supported in Firefox or Safari. Test your site on browsers running on real devices, to be certain everything behaves as expected.

Author: ```suggestion
Browser emulators don't emulate differences in web API or CSS support. For example, the **Device Emulation** tool in Microsoft Edge doesn't emulate how the different web APIs or CSS features that your site might be using are supported in Firefox or Safari.  To be certain everything behaves as expected, test your site on browsers running on real devices.
```
imo it's a little better here to use pattern: To X, do Y.  instead of: Do X, to Y.  tho either way works here imo.
@captainbrosset

Author: applied locally, will commit/push

Here are some browser emulators you can use to test your site on other browsers:

* [Firefox Responsive Design Mode](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/devtools-user/responsive_design_mode/index.html).
* [Chrome Device Mode](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/device-mode).
* [Safari Responsive Design Mode](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/safari-developer-tools/responsive-design-mode).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Device emulators and simulators

> Device simulators and emulators simulate not just the browser environment but the entire device.  Each simulator is useful to test things that require specific integration with the operating system, such as form input with mobile device keyboards.

Author: ```suggestion
Device simulators and emulators simulate the entire device, rather than just simulating the browser environment.  Each simulator is useful to test things that require specific integration with the operating system, such as form input with mobile device keyboards.
```
avoiding negative lead-in 
@captainbrosset

Author: applied locally, will commit/push

> You install device emulators and simulators on your development machine. You can therefore continue to test your website on the same machine where you're developing, while simulating the experience of using a different device.

Author: ```suggestion
You install device emulators and simulators on your development machine, so that you can continue to test your website on the same machine on which you're developing, while simulating the experience of using a different device.
```

Author: fixed locally; will commit & push

> You install device emulators and simulators on your development machine. You can therefore continue to test your website on the same machine where you're developing, while simulating the experience of using a different device.

Author: global in article: IMO change "site" to "website", a more specific, narrow, clear term.  article flips between them.  hit count:
* site - 11 hits
* website - 8 hits
@captainbrosset 

i plan to apply these comments

Author: applied locally.  resolving - will commit & push the local change

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Android emulator

At the moment, there is no way to install Microsoft Edge on an Android emulator.  However, you can use the Android Browser, the Chromium Content Shell, and Firefox for Android, which we review later in this article.  Chromium Content Shell runs the same Chromium rendering engine as Microsoft Edge, but comes without browser-specific features.

> The Android emulator comes with the Android SDK which you need to download as part of [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/sdk/installing/studio.html).  Then follow the instructions to [set up a virtual device](https://developer.android.com/tools/devices/managing-avds.html) and [start the emulator](https://developer.android.com/tools/devices/emulator.html).

Author: fyi i fixed 2 link text, by rewrite as proper steps list:
```
To use the Android emulator:

1. Download the Android emulator, which is packaged as part of the Android SDK, by downloading [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/sdk/installing/studio.html).

1. Set up a virtual device, by following the steps in [Create and manage virtual devices](https://developer.android.com/tools/devices/managing-avds.html).

1. Start the emulator, by following the steps in [Run apps on the Android Emulator](https://developer.android.com/tools/devices/emulator.html).

1. After your emulator is booted, select the **Browser** icon, and test your website on the old Stock Browser for Android.
```
@captainbrosset

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### EdgeHTML emulation

Author: Delete "EdgeHTML" section & point to MDN instead? 
@zoherghadyali @bwalderman 

Rendered article section: 
pending

Reviewer 2: Yes, let's delete this whole section. No need to point to MDN. No scenario mentioned in this section is valid anymore.

When you are done, learn how to work with the simulator through [Apple Developer documentation](https://help.apple.com/simulator/mac/current).

To avoid having to open Xcode every time you want to use the iOS Simulator, open the iOS Simulator, right-click the iOS Simulator icon in your dock, and then select **Keep in Dock**.  Now just click the icon whenever you need it.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Virtual machines

To test your site on other operating systems, you can run virtual machines on your development device. For example, **Hyper-V** is a virtualization tool that lets you run various versions of Windows and Linux. To learn more, see [Introduction to Hyper-V on Windows 10](/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/about/).

For other virtual machines, see [Virtual machines](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/Tools_and_testing/Cross_browser_testing/Testing_strategies#virtual_machines) in _Strategies for carrying out testing_ at MDN.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Cloud-based emulators and simulators

> Cloud-based emulators and simulators are commercial solutions to test your website on different devices and browsers without installing anything on your development machine.  They are useful when you don't have access to real devices or when you can't use local emulators. Cloud-based solutions are also useful for automating tests across different platforms.

Author: deleting & moving this comment to right section: Cloud-based

a local commit that didn't get pushed yet, probably from a PB comment: integrate/check:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/feeeaa73-f517-4e18-8103-660e4d730019)

If Device Emulation in Microsoft Edge DevTools isn't sufficient for your testing needs, you can test by using real devices instead.  If you don't have access to the real devices that you want to test on, setting up a virtual machine or using a cloud-based testing service can help.  A big advantage of cloud-based testing services is that they can help you automate testing for your site across different platforms and form factors.

@captainbrosset

Author: decided: keeping CB's draft, largely b/c it stays focused on 1 scenario instead of (per inherited from upstream) leading by negatively mentioning a different scenario:
Cloud-based emulators and simulators are commercial solutions to test your website on different devices and browsers without installing anything on your development machine.  They are useful when you don't have access to real devices or when you can't use local emulators. Cloud-based solutions are also useful for automating tests across different platforms.

When you are done, learn how to work with the simulator through [Apple Developer documentation](https://help.apple.com/simulator/mac/current).

> To avoid having to open Xcode every time you want to use the iOS Simulator, open the iOS Simulator, right-click the iOS Simulator icon in your dock, and then select **Keep in Dock**.  Now just click the icon whenever you need it.

Author: ```suggestion
To avoid having to open Xcode every time you want to use the iOS Simulator, open the iOS Simulator, right-click the iOS Simulator icon in your dock, and then select **Keep in Dock**.  Now you can just click the icon whenever you need it.
```

For other virtual machines, see [Virtual machines](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/Tools_and_testing/Cross_browser_testing/Testing_strategies#virtual_machines) in _Strategies for carrying out testing_ at MDN.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Cloud-based emulators and simulators

Cloud-based emulators and simulators are commercial solutions to test your website on different devices and browsers without installing anything on your development machine.  They are useful when you don't have access to real devices or when you can't use local emulators. Cloud-based solutions are also useful for automating tests across different platforms.

See [Emulators](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/Tools_and_testing/Cross_browser_testing/Testing_strategies#emulators) in _Strategies for carrying out testing_ at MDN.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## See also

Author: trying global strategy for See also: all links that are in the article. @captainbrosset - could thin out (delete some links), but this is a simple replicable pattern for doc design.  A concern: in article, many link text don't match destination title|heading - fixing that would require rewording too much right now.  In this See Also list, updated the link text.

my local change for me to push commit:
```
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See also
<!-- all links that are in the article -->

* [Emulate mobile devices (Device Emulation)](./index.md)
* [Introduction to Hyper-V on Windows 10](/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/about/) in Hyper-V docs.

Responsive design:
* [Responsive Design Mode](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/devtools-user/responsive_design_mode/index.html) in Firefox docs.
* [Simulate mobile devices with device mode](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/device-mode) in Chrome docs.
* [Responsive Design Mode](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/safari-developer-tools/responsive-design-mode) in Safari docs.

Android:
* [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/sdk/installing/studio.html)
* [Create and manage virtual devices](https://developer.android.com/tools/devices/managing-avds.html) in Android Studio docs, to set up a virtual device.
* [Run apps on the Android Emulator](https://developer.android.com/tools/devices/emulator.html) in Android Studio docs, to start the emulator.
* [Choose which Firefox Browser to download in your language: Firefox Android Beta](https://www.mozilla.org/firefox/all/#product-android-beta) - to Download the correct .apk file.

Apple:
* [Xcode](https://itunes.apple.com/app/xcode/id497799835) - to install Xcode from the Mac App Store.
* [Simulator Help](https://help.apple.com/simulator/mac/current) - in Apple Developer docs.

MDN:
* [Strategies for carrying out testing](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/Tools_and_testing/Cross_browser_testing/Testing_strategies) at MDN.<!--present article doesn't have this non-anchor link-->
   * [Emulators](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/Tools_and_testing/Cross_browser_testing/Testing_strategies#emulators) in _Strategies for carrying out testing_ at MDN.
   * [Virtual machines](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/Tools_and_testing/Cross_browser_testing/Testing_strategies#virtual_machines) in _Strategies for carrying out testing_ at MDN.
```

Author: resolving - will commit & push the local change

> To avoid having to open Xcode every time you want to use the iOS Simulator, open <!--Xcode, or iOS Simulator?-->it, right-click the iOS Simulator icon in your dock, and then select **Keep in Dock**.  Now just click the icon whenever you need it.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Cloud-based emulators and simulators

> If you aren't able to use the emulators and you don't have access to real devices, then cloud-based emulators are the next-best thing.  A big advantage of cloud-based emulators over real devices and local emulators is that you can automate unit tests for your site across different platforms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If Device Emulation in Microsoft Edge DevTools isn't sufficient for your testing needs, you can test using real devices instead. If you don't have access to the real devices you want to test on, then setting up a virtual machine, or using a cloud-based testing service can help. A big advantage of cloud-based testing services is that they can help you automate testing for your site across different platforms and form factors.
```

Author: result:
```
If Device Emulation in Microsoft Edge DevTools isn't sufficient for 
your testing needs, you can test by using real devices instead.  If 
you don't have access to the real devices that you want to test on, 
setting up a virtual machine or using a cloud-based testing service 
can help.  A big advantage of cloud-based testing services is that 
they can help you automate testing for your site across different 
platforms and form factors.
```

Author: that change wasn't committed.  went w/ later draft from CB, which avoids negative lead-in (inherited from upstream) focused on different scenario:
Cloud-based emulators and simulators are commercial solutions to test your website on different devices and browsers without installing anything on your development machine.  They are useful when you don't have access to real devices or when you can't use local emulators. Cloud-based solutions are also useful for automating tests across different platforms.

@bwalderman

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### Microsoft Edge (EdgeHTML)

Author: delete section "Microsoft Edge (EdgeHTML)" & link to MDN instead? 
@zoherghadyali @bwalderman 

rendered article section: 
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/device-mode/testing-other-browsers?branch=pr-en-us-3210#microsoft-edge-edgehtml

Reviewer 2: Yes, this section can be deleted. No need to point to MDN. Edge is supported on all platforms now. It used to be necessary to get a Windows VM through a service like BrowserStack if you didn't have a Windows device yourself in order to test EdgeHTML. That's no longer relevant though.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Microsoft Edge (EdgeHTML)

<!-- todo: delete section, point to MDN? -->

> If you need to test your website or app with Microsoft browsers and don't have the necessary versions of Windows to do so, you can use BrowserStack, which supports testing of many combinations of Microsoft browsers and operating systems both past and present.  For example, you can test all versions of Microsoft Edge (Chromium) from version 80 onwards, and Microsoft Edge (EdgeHTML) versions 15 through 18.  Testing of Microsoft Edge is free on BrowserStack.  For more information, see [Microsoft Edge Browser Testing](https://www.browserstack.com/test-on-microsoft-edge-browser) at BrowserStack.

Author: is there a relevant current URL?  
check search results: https://www.browserstack.com/search?query=microsoft%20edge

Author: fixed by PR 3220 https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3220 (Comment out 404 link browserstack.com/test-on-microsoft-edge-browser)

The following list is a sample of cloud-based emulators and testing sites. Review the descriptions for features or capabilities to consider when selecting a testing site. Conduct your own search to find the best cloud-based emulator for your needs.

> <!-- todo: delete section/list, use MDN instead -->

Author: delete list of other companies' products from section "Cloud-based emulators and simulators", & link to MDN instead?
@zoherghadyali @bwalderman 

Rendered article section: 
pending

Reviewer 2: This list has gotten a little stale. As far as I can tell, the "Mobileum" mentioned here no longer exists and an unrelated company now owns the linked page. Probably best to replace this section.

This is the closest MDN equivalent I can find: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Tools_and_testing/Cross_browser_testing/Testing_strategies

It's mostly about setting up your own cross-device testing solution, but it does mention some of the commercial cloud-based tools we're currently listing here.

Author: replaced lead-in and list by
```
See [Emulators](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/Tools_and_testing/
Cross_browser_testing/Testing_strategies#emulators) in _Strategies for 
carrying out testing_ at MDN.
```
https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/Tools_and_testing/Cross_browser_testing/Testing_strategies#emulators
